All right. So I’m 47 now, and, uh… Yeah, I know, that’s about what it’s worth. That’s what it- That’s what that deserves. “Woo.” “Woo.” “Woo!” Yeah, 47 doesn’t buy you anything. 18, you can vote, 21, you can drink, and 47, you can just- Just keep doing whatever. Just do… Just keep being out of breath. One good thing is that I’ve let go of any dream of getting in great shape, like, it’s like a relief. Just ’cause- My whole life I’ve been like, well, someday, I should really get in great shape. Now, I’m like, what? Why would I do that? That’s not gonna happen. Just- To me, the bar, the level I wanna reach as far as the shape I’m in, I just want it to be so that if you find out that I died, you ask “What happened?” That’s all. I want you to wonder what happened. I don’t want it to be like, “Oh, he died?” Oh, yeah, well, sure. Sure he did. Sure he did. This’d be bigger news to you- Did you hear Louie’s still alive? Shit. Oh, really? Oh, my God! Oh, my God, how? How?nSome things change when you get older. Like, I’ve reallocated some of the noises that I make. Like, the noise I used to make when I come is now the noise I make when I pee. Oh… oh… Oh… Ah… Ahhh… Take it all, bitch. Very disrespectful to my toilet, unfortunately. Yeah, you like that piss, don’t you? Bitch! I’m gonna shit in your mouth, too, ’cause you ain’t nothing but a shit-eatin’, piss-drinkin’ toilet! Dumb bitch, toilet! You ain’t intelligent. You ain’t even been outside. You sit there waiting for me to shit in your face. Got piss on your lips. You ain’t even special. I pissed in three toilets today. You ain’t shit. That’s terrible. That’s awful. But that’s how my dad treated his toilet, so that’s where I learned it. It’s a shame. So that’s the noise I make when I pee. And, uh, some of you might be wondering- None of you are wondering… …what noise do I make when I come. So this is the noise I make when I come. I just go… It is done! It’s a whole thing with clouds and lightning and crows. The circle is complete! It’s kind of intense. And there’s a little witch with white eyes going, “And a child will be born!” I don’t know. One time I was having sex with a woman, it was our first time having sex. Also turned out to be our last time, but I wasn’t- Didn’t know that at the- Anyway, I was getting- I was gonna come soon, so I felt like talking about it, and… But I didn’t know her very well. So it came out weird, I said, “Oh, I’m cooming.” She’s like, “What did you say?” ‘Cause I was back there. That’s why. That’s why she had to go like this. “What’d you say? What was that back there, chief? What was that?” ‘Cause I’m always back there. That’s a-that’s a weird thing to brag about. I’m always behind her. Every time. So they don’t see me crying. It’s weird having sex with a woman from behind ’cause you don’t know what’s going on the whole time and you get kinda paranoid. The whole time, she might be like… I was on the subway in New York. This isn’t another sex story. This is a traveling story. Are you ready? So I’m on the subway and I’m standing there- I wasn’t holding anything, I just like to stand like this. I’m standing there. I walk around the city like this. Hi. So I’m standing there and from behind me over here, I hear this. I hear… And I was like, whew, okay. It’s a crazy person. I mean, it’s not a big surprise in New York. Then I heard it again. I was like, all right, I wanna see, I wanna see the crazy person. I just wanna take a look. So I look over and it’s not what I expected. It wasn’t a big homeless guy with two sets of headphones that don’t work or anything like that. It was a… A young woman, she looked like she was about 21 and she’s standing there, she’s very, kinda nice- Properly dressed. She was very, like, Michigan-y or something. Very suburban-y, Michigan-y kinda thing. And she’s standing there with her ponytail, and then all of a sudden, she starts going like this, she goes… La-la la-la-la la-la!” And I realize, oh, she’s, like, a student, like, a singing music student, and she’s doing her vocal exercises on the subway. You know what? It wasn’t charming or nice. It was arrogant and rude, ’cause she just had this look like, it’s- I’m so cool, ’cause I’m studying music in New York City and I just do my thing right on the subway every day. La-la la-la-la la-la, everybody! La-la la-la-la la-la, tired nurse who just did a 14-hour shift!nWe live in an interesting time, you know. ‘Cause you can be on an airplane, you’re like one of 200 passengers. You’re on a flight 30,000 feet in the air, and in the middle of the flight if you just decide to do this, you’re sitting in your seat and you just start going like this, you go… Maaah! Maaah! Mahh! If you do that and don’t stop doing it, they will land the plane. You can will a plane to the ground without a weapon or a threat. You don’t even have to do that much, you can just sit there and just start going, “Down! Down!” Seriously, if you were on a plane and you just didn’t stop saying “down.” “Down! Down!” “Sir, is there a problem?” “Down! Down!” Fighter jets will appear- I mean, you’re going to the nearest airport. And then I guess you’re in trouble, but… What? They can’t put you, like, in prison because you said “down” several times. They, like, bother you. “Why’d you do it? Are you a terrorist? Why’d you do it?” “I just-I just didn’t want to be up anymore. “I just didn’t like it. “I mean, I just said the word of the-where I wanted to be. “You didn’t have to do it. It was just a suggestion, Jesus Christ.” I was on a plane once and there was two babies on the plane. And other people, it wasn’t just… It wasn’t just me and two babies. That would be weird. You get on a plane, there’s just two babies. Come on, we’re leaving soon. He’s the pilot baby. I’m the other baby. No, that’s all right, I’m not gonna… You babies have a good flight, but I’m gonna find another way to get there. Yeah, I don’t like the way this was starting.nAnyway, I was on a plane and there was these two babies and they were crying the whole time, crying the whole flight, and that happens a lot. I don’t think they knew each other, they were just crying. I’ve seen this on so many flights, I started to wonder, is there a reason for this? Is there, like, an actual reason why babies- So I looked it up. Turns out, there’s an actual reason why babies cry on airplanes, and it’s because they’re upset that gay people are getting married. Yeah. They’re, like, really upset. Like, inconsolably upset. Honey, it’s- The country’s changing. Waah! And I don’t agree with them. I think if people are in love, they should get married. But they can’t- They can’t accept that. ‘Cause they’re just-You know, they’re just being babies. Babies are selfish. They are, babies are selfish. They just, waah! No baby ever goes, “Waah, but how you doing, though?” I have two daughters and both of them at one time were babies and I held them and they cried on planes. It’s happened to me, I’ve had a baby on a plane. If you’re ever- This is how selfish people are. When you’re on a plane and you hear a baby crying, you think that’s happening to you. You’re like, “Ugh, this is gonna ruin my flight! It’s gonna ruin it!” Well, look at the parent, ’cause that person is holding a crying baby on a plane, which means they’ve been traveling with a baby all day, which means they have a baby, okay? So their life isn’t even good. They don’t like anything. Their whole life is, ugh, Jesus! If there’s any joy for them, it’s that this is now bothering other people. “Yeah, you listen to this shit now!” Waah!nI remember one time, my baby was crying on the plane, she was really upset, and this guy, some businessman on the plane, ’cause businessmen always think that every flight is a private plane of theirs that we’re all, like, piggybacking on. And this guy has his fucking newspaper and he turns around to look at me and my baby and he looks right at me. He doesn’t kinda, like, go like this. He looks at me like, hmm? Like, could you? I’m like, “Oh, I’m sorry, is this bothering you? Let me just…” You all just clapped for a dead baby. You applauded a dead baby. I have two children. Uh, nine and 12 years old. Both girls. Uh, they’re both gay. Um… I’m raising ’em gay. Most people raise their kids straight, I’m just gonna raise mine gay. Maybe they’ll do what they want later, but, uh, as long as they’re in my house, they’re gay. I tell ’em every day, you’re gay, honey, good night. Go to bed. Brush your gay teeth, gay honey. Don’t forget to be gay.nHaving children is a big responsibility and I’ve never really done very well at it. I’ve made a lot of mistakes. Some of them big, some of them small, you know? Like, I’m still a person, I still am an idiot, you know, still, like, I- I got high one night, I got really high, because I don’t do drugs. I never do drugs, never. So that when I do… …they’re way more fun. To me, that’s my best advice about drugs. If you want to enjoy drugs, never do them, never. Because then when you do, they’re actually fun. ‘Cause when drugs are a part of your life, they’re just another pain in the ass in your life. It’s just a, ugh, my drugs suck. I don’t want to have that problem. I always want to be that person where it’s a new thing, somebody’s like, hey, you wanna try this? And I’m like, oh! I don’t know if I should. This is crazy. I don’t even know how I’m gonna do it. I mean, what is this? Anyway, I got- My friend had the little vape- I’m a little worried, honestly, by the young people with the vaping and they just do this and then they just vape. And they just stand on the corner and puff and look at the fucking thing and I miss-I miss you. That’s what it is, I miss you people, ’cause you used to stand around like this and I get to go, “I’d fuck that one, and that one’s okay,” but now I don’t even- I’m just looking at the top of people’s heads now. But I didn’t realize how, like, my friend- I have a younger friend who vapes and she told me it’s just to kinda, like, calm her. She’s like, I barely feel it, you know. Sometimes it helps me sleep. So one night, we’re hanging out and I’m like, I’m gonna go home and go to sleep, but I mean, I’ll just try it, so I took one little tiny hit. I was insane, I was completely insane. I was in my house, I couldn’t even walk past a window, I had to go under the windows, ’cause I was afraid of the inside of my own brain. So I started texting people, just being- Just texting, “I’m so high. I’m so fucking high. I’m so high,” and I texted, you know, another friend. “I’m so high I want to suck the pot jizz out of my own dick and get higher.” That’s what I wrote. I’m not bragging, I’m just telling you that’s what I wrote. And I sent it. And then later, I looked at my text and I was, like, I think I might have sent that to my 12-year-old daughter. I think it’s possible. And I didn’t, but I too easily could’ve. We need-Now my kids are in my phone. There needs to be some very reliable firewall that says, these numbers are much harder to text, that you can’t just, whoops! Traumatized her irreversibly! That you can go, like, to write to these numbers, I have to solve the Hellraiser puzzle and I have to… There’s two guys with the keys in the opposite room that turn them at the same moment and there’s a warning. “Are you sure you want to send this picture “of your pubic hair to your ex-wife’s mother?” That’s how you want to break the silence of six years since the divorce. “This is my pubic hair. “Look at all of my pubic hair. How have you been?” I try to be a good dad, but, you know, like- life just kinda takes off and kids start, you know, they got their own ideas and they’re- My nine-year-old, she’s just figuring out about lying and that’s a tough thing. It’s hard to roll that one back, because lying is pretty amazingly useful in life. It’s like, how do you tell a kid not to use a thing that just solves every possible problem, like magic? How do you… ‘Cause that’s why-Kids lie ’cause they’re in trouble. They lie ’cause they’re in more trouble than they can take, you know? ‘Cause kids… Nine-year-old, when a nine-year-old lies, it’s not for some weird Machiavellian, you know… “Do you know what my teacher said about you? It was interesting.” They don’t just make shit up. They lie because they’re in trouble and it’s more than they can- ‘Cause trouble is too much for a kid. Trouble-For grown-ups, we can take trouble. We don’t care. We just go, oh, I’m sorry. Oh, am I in trouble? Oh, whoops! We don’t care. But to a little kid, trouble is like this horrible… Did you take the chocolate? And she did and she doesn’t know how to handle it. Did you- Did you take it? “No.” Well, all right, then, have a nice day. How do you then tell her, yeah, don’t ever apply that perfect solution again, to terrifying things. Mark Twain once said, “A man who always tells the truth doesn’t have to remember what he said.” And that’s great. But Mark Twain also said, “There once was a big black guy named Nigger Jim.” So… I don’t know if… …a hundred percent of the things he said were perfectly awesome. Really, Mark? Nigger Jim, you’re gonna go with? That’s the best you can do, to name the- It’s got kind of a nice ring to it, Nigger Jim. Yeah, well, it’s a little on the nose, isn’t it? Could’ve called him Black Mike, I mean, just a little… Take it down one notch of the… Thanks for that, Mark. Anyway. So, while we’re in this area… Now that I know you guys are cool. No, no. No. No. Um… No, no. But, uh-but, uh… but… but… This is a story that takes place- I’m gonna tell you this story, it’s kind of a messy story. It takes place over a lot of years, ’cause it start- It started with my friend Mike, who told me this story. This happened to him back in the ’90s. He was going home for Christmas and he lives in Connecticut- He grew up in Connecticut in some shitty shit town in shitty, shitty Connecticut, and he didn’t like going home. He’s one of those people. He came from a place- Doesn’t like it anymore. And he goes back- He doesn’t know how to handle his family, you know, and he came from a family of white racists and he doesn’t like going home, but it’s still home, so he went home for Christmas one year and everybody’s hanging out during the day, talking, having lunch, and his father and his brother both work at this factory and his brother’s grousing about his day at work and he goes, “Yeah, and then this fucking nigger fell asleep at the forklift.” And then my friend Mike heard that and he went, “Oh, God. Why am I part of these people? I hate this.” And he felt bad. And then that night, he’s in the kitchen and he’s having a warm milk or whatever and he… I don’t know why that’s- I don’t know why that’s funny, but… What that says about him. Yeah, ’cause he’s a pussy. No. He’s just sort of having some time to himself and his cousin comes downstairs, who’s staying- And his cousin, he likes his cousin. That’s the one person he always felt connected with, and his cousin’s like, “What’s wrong, man?” And he says, “Well, jeez, I come home and I hoped “that everything would be, you know, normal, “but then, my brother says, uhh, he’s at the factory and this nigger fell asleep at the forklift.” And his cousin goes, “Oh, my God, the nigger fell asleep at the forklift?” So this is the first part of the story, okay? So Mike tells me that story about how he’s just not listened to by anybody in his family, and then later on, I get a job writing on a TV show for Cedric the Entertainer. Great guy, and he had a show and he hired a writing staff, half white writers, half black writers. So at lunchtime, we talk about race, it was just a- We’d have these provocative, interesting conversations, trading notes about race, the white writers and the black writers, and I told that story. I told the whole thing about the guy, “Uhh, nigger and the forklift,” And then the cousin saying, “Uhh, the nigger at the forklift!” And then one of the writers, a black writer, he goes, “There’s nothing worse “than a nigger falling asleep at the forklift, making it harder for the rest of us.” Still, nobody is quite hearing what my friend was going through. And then, about a year later, I’m hanging out with my friend Dino. Dino is Greek. He has no dog in the race, he doesn’t care either way. He’s Greek. Greeks aren’t white or black, they’re just- He’s just got a big nose and he just stands there. And I told Dino the whole story, I told him about the guy, “Uhh, the forklift,” and the guy, “Uhh!” And then the black writer- And then Dino says, “How do you fall asleep at a forklift?” My oldest daughter is gonna be 13 next year, that’s a big deal. That’s a big deal. That’s- All the parents ahead of you always go, like, yeah. Yeah, wait ’til she… That’s when you… I’m not afraid of her teenagehood. It’s gonna be challenging and difficult and she’ll meet the challenges, you know. I’m always proud of my kid. She’s a good kid. Now, some parents are really afraid of their daughters. A lot of dads get scared, like, I don’t know what to do. I have this friend, his daughter’s 15, he’s like, “She’s gonna start having sex! “I don’t know what to do! She’s gonna have sex, what do I do?” I’m like, well, you don’t do anything. You don’t have a role in that at all. You’re her father. No role. Not supportive or advisory, nothing. “But what if she has a bad sexual experience?” Oh, she’s gonna have a number of those. Oh, yes, she is. Her whole life is gonna be just walking through a blizzard of bad dicks, just… Ow! Dicks, just- Jesus. What the fuck? That was a big one. Holy fuck, I’m just trying to get to work.nThe little one, the nine-year-old, life’s a little simpler. Tap dancing, she takes tap dancing lessons. We started her with tap dancing, because we figure by the time she grows up, it’ll be the 1930s again, and, uh, yeah. She’ll have this thing she can do that nobody enjoys watching. Do you know who the audience is for tap dancing? The parents of tap dancing students. That’s all of it. ‘Cause we all have to go to the show at the end of the tap dancing semester, and they have a big theater show and all the kids get up there, they all tap dance in groups of threes. There’s about 6,000 kids. They do about 20 minutes each. So the show’s about seven months long, and everybody dies at the end. But you go because you want to see your kid tap dance, ’cause that’s an amazing thing, ’cause this was a baby, she was just a baby. She was just like… That’s it. And now she’s going like this. It’s amazing. But you gotta watch all those other kids that you don’t love at all. And you gotta watch people, grown-ups do it. There’s grown-up- Adult students, and they get up there. Get off! Nobody’s here to see you! Nobody! Your parents are dead, you’re 52! Nobody came from work. Nobody came from work.nI take her every-every Thursday to tap dancing and we go up to the school and she puts on her tap shoes and she goes in the little room. I don’t go in there, and she tap dances and I wait outside, because it’s 40 minutes, it’s not enough time to go anywhere. So I just sit there and listen to… And then she comes out. “I don’t-I’m tired of this. I don’t want to go anymore.” Good, don’t. I don’t want to bring you. Quit. Quit. I don’t care. I don’t push my kids into this shit. ‘Cause you gotta do it, too. I don’t wanna do it. “Daddy, I’m tired of soccer.” Soccer is out of our lives forever, with those words from thine mouth. Soccer is gone. I don’t care- Don’t go to school, I don’t want to get up at 7:00. Don’t do any of this shit, honey. I don’t care. I have money, just eat the food in the house. Stay home and eat. You and your sister, don’t have kids, I can cover all of us and then we all die. That’s my goal. I want to make enough money that we can just lock the door and eat the food. That’s it. “Daddy, what are we doing today?” Go to the food room and pick something out and go to bed. That’s all that’s required of you. People-People overthink this life shit. People get all knotted up. “I don’t know what to do with my life. “Like, I don’t know, like, what I should be, or, like… “I don’t know, it’s like… What should I, like, do? With my- With, like, my life?” Just get food and put it in the- Put food in here. That’s it. Put food in here. Walk around and look for food. And anytime you see any food, put it in here. Just take it and put it in here. Later, when you feel pressure, shit out the shit in there. That’s it. If anybody tries to stop you from doing either of those, murder them. That’s it. Doesn’t have to be any more complicated. Do it ’til you’re died- ’til you’re dead. ‘Til you’re dead, died, dead. I don’t know how long I’m gonna live, I have no idea. You don’t really ever get to find out. You never get to go, okay, I’m dead, so, 80. You don’t ever get to have that thought. “This is it. ” You get to go, “This is probably it.” That’s your last thought. “This is probably it right here.”nYeah, well, we’re all gonna die at some point. It’s true, man. And you find out at some point- It’s an interesting thing about human beings, that we live with the knowledge that we’re gonna die. I found out when I was seven that everybody dies. My grandfather told me. He said, “Everybody dies!” I wasn’t even talking to him. I was just trying to blow out the candles. And I was seven years old when I found out that everybody dies. And I was excited, not ’cause everybody dies, but ’cause I knew it. I was excited ’cause I knew I was young to know that everybody dies. I knew that most of my friends didn’t know and I thought, I’m gonna tell them. I want to be the one that tells everybody. I especially wanted to tell Benjy, this kid across the street from me. There was this kid Benjy, he lived-I didn’t- He wasn’t my friend. I was seven and he was six, but if I ever came out in my front yard, he would come out and I’d be like, ugh, here he comes. Just hated him. Hated him. First person I ever hated. Like, visceral hate. He was- To me, he was a piece of shit cocksucker asshole. That’s what he was to me, and I didn’t even know any of those words. I just had that, like, as a raw feeling with no way to say it. I was too young for the feeling that I had, and then somebody- I heard somebody say “piece of shit cocksucker asshole,” I was like, that, yes, thank you. That’s what that- Yes, that’s how-Yes. Anyway, one day I was in my front yard and piece of shit Benjy comes across. And he says, “I got a new bike,” or something like that. And I was like, uh, “You’re gonna die someday.” And he was like, “What? No, I’m not.” I said, “Yes, you are. “Everybody dies. “You’re gonna die and your mom’s gonna die “and your daddy’s gonna die. In that order.” He was really upset and he starts running. It’s still funny to me, it still makes me laugh, 40 years later. I can still see it so clearly and it still makes me laugh. Run, Benjy! You can’t run from this shit, bitch. It’s gonna get you. I wonder if he’s dead. Anyway. So he came back with his mom, his mom is so angry, and then I was scared. And his mom came over, “What did you say to him?” And I said, “I just told him that everybody dies.” And she goes, “Well, that’s not necessarily true.” I was like, “What?” She says, “Well, some people die, but not everybody does.” And I was so full of questions. I was like, what about- What about Abraham Lincoln and George Washington, they’re dead. But she said, “Yeah, “that’s ’cause something happened to them. “George Washington didn’t take care of himself “and Lincoln got shot, but there’s a lot of people alive from those days.” And I was like, really? What about, like, Bible people? And she’s like, “Yeah, I- We have to go.” And then she left, ’cause I think she realized, this is only gonna get worse. She’s not on a good side of this argument. And then I went to my mom and I told her the whole thing, she’s like, don’t worry, that lady’s a fucking idiot, don’t listen to her. My mom said, “Don’t worry, baby, you’re definitely going to die.” Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. People from the Bible. I wonder if people in the Bible knew they were gonna be in the Bible. Like, “You guys, this is totally gonna be in the Bible. “This is totally-You guys, “we’re gonna get in the Bible, everybody. I gotta get my roots done so I look good for the Bible.” Yeah, my dog died recently. I had to tell the kids that the dog is dead. That’s a tough thing, telling your kids that the dog died. You gotta tell ’em at some point. You can’t just keep going, What? No, he’s-Where’d he go? Oh, look, there he goes. I don’t know, he’s- That little scamp. There he goes, go get ’em. Go get ’em! Told my kids the dog died and we dealt with it. And I was proud of them how they expressed their feelings about it. They cried. I was proud of them how they dealt with their feelings and what they said about it and how they processed it and I realized, this was a positive thing. That’s how you start thinking as a parent, a lot of things you don’t think would be positive really are, ’cause-’cause a dog dying is an opportunity to deal with death with your kids. It’s like a dry run for Grandma. It is, it is. Dog dies, you talk about it, you deal with it. Later on, you go, so, you know all that stuff we talked about? About the dog? Yeah, so, Grandma now. Mm-hmm. All the same stuff. That’s right. All right, go brush your teeth. I had a dog when I was a kid and he hated me, and it really hurt. It’s a true story, my dog hated me and I- I wanted a dog so bad, I was, like, ten years old, I used to beg my mother for a dog and she just would say, like, you had one when you were a baby and it died, it’s fine. But finally, she said, you can have a dog if you keep your room clean for a month. And I was so excited, ’cause I was, like, I’m getting a dog. I told all my friends, I’m gonna get a dog. All I have to do is keep my room clean for a month. I lasted about a week and it just went to shit. I couldn’t do it and then I tried, like, three, four days, I couldn’t do it. And I got so depressed. I was like, I’m ten and I already know my life is gonna be shit ’cause I can’t do anything. And finally, my mom was like, just- We’ll get the dog, you’re bumming everybody out. So she got us a dog. And the dog looked at me and he hated me, on sight. And I worked hard to take care of this dog. I was kind to him and he still hated me, which hurt. That’s why it hurt. ‘Cause he must’ve just hated, like, who I am inside. He-You could tell how he felt, ’cause he was very expressive. He was a terrier, you know, so he had eyebrows. Like, I’d walk in the room and he’d go, like, oh, fuck, I can’t. And he would just leave! I would take him for a walk and I had to use a leash and I didn’t want to use a leash. I wanted to be one of those cool guys with a dog that just comes along, you know one of those guys. He’s always got, like, a suede jacket with patches in it. And, like, scratchy hair, he’s like, hey. And he gets in his old pickup and he’s like, come on, dog. He goes, like- You know those guys that can whistle that cool whistle? Whatever. Whew! And the dog jumps in the back and they both get laid somewhere because they’re both so cool. That’s what I wanted. But my dog, we’d go for a walk and the leash was, like, taut, like this, it wasn’t even like, yeah, we’re friends. It was like, how far from this kid can I get my face? He would be choking himself the whole- “I hate you! I hate you!” And if I ever, like, slipped and dropped the leash, he- He was like, I’m not your dog. He would just run. He would run like a slave, he would just take off. That’s how he ran. It’s an apt description. That’s how he ran. He didn’t run like a deer. This is how a deer… He ran like this. He ran away so many times and then we’d get a call from the pound. “Hi, we have your dog.” And you could hear my dog in the background, like, “Don’t- “Seriously? I told you I don’t wanna…” I’ve never been a big animal person. Some animals I hate. Uh, bats, I think bats are just disgusting. I hate bats. I hate-It’s a rat with leather wings. You ever seen one and they, like, look around? It’s like, somebody, you know? They have a face. It’s disgusting. I hate bats. And I’m sure there’s a whole thing of- Oh, did you know that bats make all the French toast in the world, or whatever? I don’t care. I hate them. I had a bad bat experience. This summer, I was, uh- We rented a house this summer, I got a house for me and the kids. My ex wife and I- We share custody of the kids, and so this summer, I had half- One month they go with her, one month with me, so I got a nice house in the country and it was beautiful, the kids loved it, but the kids go to sleep at, you know, 8:00 at night. So I’m just laying awake, terrified. Terrified. I’m so scared in the country, ’cause it’s just quiet and it’s just mystery. And trees and darkness. I live in New York City, I feel perfectly safe there. I’m surrounded by murderers and child molesters and Jews. Sorry. I mean, there are, there are a lot. There’s a bunch of those, but… So… So one night, I’m in the country house and I’m just laying- just laying awake, just begging for the fucking sun to come up so I can sleep through my days with the kids. And I’m laying awake and I’m- My bedroom’s above the kitchen and I- Suddenly I hear this- I swear to God, I heard this sound, I heard… I heard that, like, clear as a bell. And immediately, my heart is pounding. I’m like, I’m going to have a heart attack right now, because there is a witch in the kitchen. First of all, there are witches. I have no doubt, in that moment, there’s witches. That’s how easy it was to flip me over. There are witches. And there’s one in the kitchen, and I gotta go down there. I gotta-I can’t just, eh, she’ll get- They like kids, she’ll get the kids. So I go downstairs, I’m terr-Terrified. And I’m standing outside the kitchen door like this, for like, an hour. Too scared to go in, until a little bit of logic seeped in and told me, even if there is a witch in there, she wouldn’t just make a noise and then just stand there for, like, an hour. So I go in, there’s nobody in the kitchen. And then I hear the noise again, and it was the dishwasher. The dishwasher has weird tubes and when the soap goes through ’em, it’s kind of vocal, I don’t know why, but it goes… It was the weirdest thing, to watch my dishwasher do it. I was like, all right, it’s cool. I’m fine, there’s no witches. I’m about to go upstairs, and a- And a bat, a fucking asshole bat picked that moment- He’s like, ha ha! And he just flew right- right by my head, like this, and I just-I went, “Aaah!” And I just fell on the floor. “Aaah!” And I immediately, I crawl into the closet, I closed the door and I called 911 right away. I don’t know if you’ve ever called 911 and you don’t realize until they answer how you shouldn’t be calling 911? “911, tell us your emergency.” “I-I’m sorry, I’m very sorry to be bothering you. This doesn’t qualify.” The lady’s like, “Sir, what’s the problem?” I said, “There’s a bat in my house. And I don’t like it.” But she was nice to me, ’cause it’s country 911. If you call 911 in New York City, “there’s a bat in my house!” They’ll be like, “Sir, we’ll send a car right over to shoot you in the face.” But she was nice, she’s like, “Sir, we understand, “you’re divorced, you’re overcompensating “with the country house. You’re in over your head.” She said, call this guy, she gave me a number, she said, call this guy, he’s a guy who takes care of bats. He’s a man who’s, uh- bats are his focus. I felt like she was doing a lot of work to not say “bat man.” Like she was kind of going around… “He’s a male human who bats are his… I’m not gonna say bat- I don’t wanna say it.” So I called the bat man… …and he comes over and I’m in the closet looking through the crack, at- The bat is on the ceiling, hanging upside down, he’s just looking around. The most disgusting thing. And so finally, there’s a knock at my door and I go, I crawl to the door and I open it and he’s like, hello. And he says, “Where’s the bat?” And I’m like, “Ehhh…” So the guy walks over and he just takes the bat. That’s it. He just took it. He’s like, all right? Yeah, you pretty much nailed it. That’s amazing. It’s like I called somebody and said, “Help, there’s a box of tissues on my table!” Oh, thank goodness. What a relief, to have a man in the house. Would you like some sweet tea? I wasn’t expecting company. Ooh, my robe fell open. He saw my breasts. Ooh. What do we do now? Mr. bat man? You know, I’m kind of grateful to that bat now, now that you’re going to fuck me. You’re not? Well, all right, you can go, then. I can’t- I can’t get out of it. I’m sorry. I just like to keep doing that ’til the laughter stops. Fuck, he’s really- This is getting upsetting. What if I just did that for, like, 40 minutes? Well, if you weren’t gonna help me, then why did you come over? I’m alone here all day and I hardly can handle it anymore. All right, all right. So… No, no. No, don’t do that. Don’t do that. I was, um… I was in New York one time, I was on the subway platform and I saw two rats, uh, and they were fucking. And I never saw that before. I’m like, oh, shit. There’s two rats fucking right there. And so I watched ’em, um, ’cause you can watch rats fuck. It’s not a big deal. You don’t have to go, like… You can really just totally just watch ’em. Hmm, I see. Anyway, I’m watching ’em, I’m just curious. I mean, it wasn’t… surprising how they do it. It’s not like she’s on top going, mmm. Mmm. Mmm, mmm, mm. Thank you. I love it, I love it. Ooh! I think this is a Japanese rat I’m doing, I don’t know. “Ooh, it’s so good to fuck you! Ohh! Come on, Ricky, do me!” I don’t know, all right. Anyway, it wasn’t anything like that. It was a pretty standard rat fuck. Just, he’s on top, kinda smushing her into the pavement and she’s like… And I’m watching ’em, just- I mean, I didn’t, like, miss my train. Just, while I was there. ‘Cause I was- I was curious. It didn’t turn me on, I was just curious. ‘Cause I want to know, what is it gonna be like when he comes. That’s what I wanted to know. What is it like when a rat comes? Is it, like, uh- Is it just a biological thing, just a dispassionate, kinda just, meh! And then he just goes home? Or is it like, “Yeah, fucking yeah!” Is it like, “Aww…” Is it, you know? Is it ecstasy? Is it an orgasm? I told that story to a friend of mine. She was like, “Well, what about the girl rat? “What about her orgasm? Why didn’t you empower her and wonder how she comes?” What, are you crazy? Girl rats don’t come. There’s no way the girl gets to come when rats fuck. First of all, he’s not gonna hold out for her. He’s not that kinda dude, you can tell. He didn’t give a shit. He’s gonna fuck her and leave, he doesn’t even know her name. He’s not sitting there waiting for her and trying to think of things to not come, like giant garbage bags with no food in them or whatever. And even if he did, she’s on a subway platform in front of people. She’s not gonna be able to get to that place, that inside place, that girl rats need to find their orgasm. ‘Cause I know what girl rats need. I know how to make a girl rat come. I do, you just pick ’em up and hold ’em upside down and just… Just to be clear, what I was doing there… I just want to make sure you know. I spit in her mouth while I played with her little asshole. Don’t judge her, that’s what she likes. I did it for her. I was watching The Wizard of Oz with my daughters and- I know that’s- I know that’s, uh- That’s a weird couple of stories to put together. Fingering a rat’s asshole to orgasm and watching The Wizard of Oz with my daughters, but they happened to have happened one right after the other. Most things that I do, I do right after I made a rat come. That’s what I do at night. It’s my- It’s the only way I try to help. All right. So I was… Let me just tell you this first. I was, uh, I was at a place to- eating dinner in New York and I heard these two women talking and one of ’em is talking about the guy she’s dating. They were about 21 years old, like, NYU students, and so she’s talking about it and, you know, a lot of times I’ll hear this, a woman talking about the guy she’s dating and she runs down the stuff that’s not satisfying, the things she doesn’t like. She’s like, “He’s just, you know, I text him “and he, like, he doesn’t, like, respond right away “and then, when he does, it’s like, whatever, so that’s weird. “And then, like, I saw him and he’s just being weird. “And so then he, like, calls me, he’s like, I’m sorry I’m weird. “It’s, like, weird, right now. And I was like, whatever. And then we had sex. And it’s just weird.” And then I’m listening ’cause I wanted to know, what is her friend gonna say? I want to know what kind of friend she has, you know. And her friend just says, “He’s a piece of shit. “He’s a piece of shit. “He’s not good enough for you, ’cause you’re amazing. “You’re amazing. So he just can’t handle how amazing you are.” And I remember thinking, that is a shitty friend. That’s not a good friend. That is not a good way to approach life. “I’m amazing! “And anybody who doesn’t text me back is just- can’t handle how amazing I am.” I mean, she’s a student. She can’t be- She’s not Nelson Mandela, she’s in college. She-I’m sure she’s fine, but you’re amazing, the way you… take classes. What is- What is so amazing? She’s kinda boring, he’s kind of a douche, so it’s fine. They’re fine. You need to know that you’re boring a little bit. It’s important. Self love is a good thing, but self awareness is more important. You need to, once in a while go, oh, I’m kind of an asshole. You have to have that thought once in a while, or you’re a psychopath. You know like when you say to a friend of yours, “You’re being an asshole” and they’re like, “No, I’m not.” Well, it’s not up to you if you’re an asshole or not. That’s up to everybody else. You don’t get to say no to that. “You’re an asshole.” “No, I’m not.” “Oh, sorry, I thought- Okay, I’m glad I checked. I guess you’re not.” If somebody tells you you’re an asshole, you should go, “Oh, shit.” All right, what happened, how did I get here? It’s like somebody saying, you know, “You got something on your face. ” “No, I don’t.” It’s like America- I feel like America is, like, the world’s worst girlfriend. America is like a terrible girlfriend to the rest of the world, ’cause when somebody hurts America, she remembers it forever, but if she does anything bad, it’s like it- “What?” “It did- I didn’t do anything.” America, why do you keep bombing those people in Yemen and all these- “Well, it’s ’cause 9/11, okay? 9/11, so shut up, assholes.” Okay, but you killed hundreds of thousands of people, so I think you can- “Yeah, no, but 9/11. “Fuck you. You don’t even understand.” Yeah, but you’re torturing people. “I-It wasn’t even torture, oh, my God. “He’s such a baby. I didn’t even do anything to him.” And… And I’m saying this about women ’cause I’m a guy. Women might say this about- that this is what guys are like. That’s just what it’s like, you know, because I think racism and sexism are very different. To me, racism is just a mistake. It’s like, just an error. It doesn’t really make any sense, we can just do away with it, but sexism isn’t going anywhere, ’cause sexism is way deep the fuck down inside, so it’s just the way we feel about each other. It’s, “Ahh, women! “Women! Women! “Women! Women! Women!” And you’re like, “Men! “Men, men! Men! “Men! “Men! Men! Men!” Anyway, so I’m watching The Wizard of Oz with my daughters. Is that enough of a palate cleanser? All right. I’m watching The Wizard of Oz, I don’t know if you’ve seen it, it’s about a little girl named Dorothy, a very sweet little girl played by an alcoholic older lady, who, uh… Lives in Kansas, she has a dog, she’s very upset. And she keeps telling- “My dog!” And everybody’s like, This is a farm. We’re working. Leave us alone. And then there’s a tornado and they all run inside and they barely look for her. It’s unbelievable. It was so upsetting to me when I was a kid to see this movie, ’cause Auntie Em is like, “Dorothy! Okay, fuck it.” And she just goes right inside. Bolts the door. Unbelievable. So Dorothy goes up to Oz. So here’s the thing, I was watching it the other night, and there’s this one moment that really stunned me. It’s when Ray Bolger, who played the Scarecrow, he just got ripped apart by flying monkeys and he’s very upset and he has this performance that’s way over the top, even for this movie. Do you remember that moment? The Tin Man comes over. “What happened?” And he’s like, “Well, first they tore my arms off “and they threw them over there! And then they tore my legs off and they threw them over there!” And I’ve seen this movie a thousand times, but for some reason this time, that moment made me go, “Oh, shit!” Ooh! That was a lot. And I started to wonder if Victor Fleming, the guy who directed The Wizard of Oz, if he had a moment during the filming of the movie where he was, like, I think I gotta have a word with Ray, ’cause that’s getting to be a lot. All right, let him- Just let him do another one. Okay, action! “What happened?” “Well, first they tore my arms off “and they threw them over there! “And then they tore my legs off. They threw them over there!” Okay, cut! Comes over. Uh… So listen. Ray… Yes? Eh, you’re fine. You guys have been great, thanks a lot for coming. I hope you enjoyed it. Thank you very much! Thank you!The Old Lady And The Dog”nI live– I live in New York. I always– Like, there’s this old lady in my neighborhood, And she’s always walking her dog. She’s always just– she’s very old. She just stands there just being old, And the dog just fights gravity every day, just– The two of them, it’s really– The dog’s got a cloudy eye, and she’s got a cloudy eye, And they just stand there looking at the street In two dimensions together, and– And she’s always wearing, like, this old sweater dress. I guess it was a sweater when she was, like, 5’10”, But now it’s just, like, this sweater And her legs are– her legs are a nightmare. They’re just white with green streaks and bones sticking out. Her legs are awful. I saw a guy with no legs wheeling by, And he was like, “yecch, no thank you. “I do not want those. “I’d rather just have air down here like I have Than to look down at that shit.” I see these two all the time, and I always look at them, And I always think, “god, I hope she dies first.” I do. I hope she dies first, for her sake, Because I don’t want her to lose the dog. I don’t think she’ll be able to handle it. If she dies– If the old lady dies first, I’m not worried about the dog Because the dog doesn’t even know about the old lady. This dog is aware of three inches around his head. He’s living in two-second increments. The second he’s in and the one he just left Is all he knows about, But if he dies, this lady, she’s gonna be destroyed Because this dog is all she has, And I know he’s all she has because she has him. There’s no– If she had one person in her life, She would not keep this piece of shit little dog. Even if just some young woman in her building one morning Were to say, “good morning, gladys,” She’d be like, “good,” And just flush him down the toilet, just– Poom! Poom! The dog just keeps bumping on the drain. Poom! “” she gives up. Ends up just shitting on her dog for the rest of her life. P-p-p! Poom! “My Daughter Likes Fish”nYou ever flush a pet down the toilet? I had to flush my daughter’s fish down the toilet. I came home, the fish was dead. She wasn’t home from school yet, so I just flushed the fish, And that’s a weird moment, too, ’cause fish live in water. So you put it in the toilet, floats to the bottom, Like, “yeah, he’s dead,” And then you flush, and it looks like he goes, “wait a second! Aw, shit! “I was taking a nap! Jesus! “you gotta be in constant motion To get any respect in this house.” And then my daughter comes home. “why did he die, da–” Come on. What am I gonna say? Why did he die? Because who gives a shit? That’s the reason. That’s the actual reason, is because didn’t matter That he was alive. That’s why he’s dead. He didn’t know his name, and he didn’t love you back. These are the facts about that fish’s life. My daughter likes fish. We took her to the aquarium. I took both my kids to the aquarium in boston, And we were looking at this seal, or sea lion. I don’t know which one. I don’t care. I don’t think they need to be separate things. I really don’t. They don’t care, and we don’t care. There’s, like, three scientists Who give a shit what we call all those things. The scientists could go on TV tomorrow And say, “ok, everybody. “from now on, seals and sea lions and walruses, And–you know what?–Penguins are all seals now,” And we would all be like, “yeah, all right. Fine. Yes. Whatever, man.” Anyway, so we’re looking at this seal/sea lion thing, And he’s looking back at us through the plexiglas, And he’s going– They’re really disgusting in person. Most animals are when you really see them. You ever go to a farm? You think you’re gonna see little, white sheep Going, “baa,” but they’re all fat and shit-colored, And they’re like– Jesus. That thing is awful. Anyway, seals don’t go– They go– My daughter’s like, “what is he saying?” I don’t know! “I’m a slave! Kill me!” “The Food Chain”nMust be awful to be other kinds of stuff, You know? I’m glad I’m this. This is a pretty good deal when you consider the alternatives. Anything else, any other kind of thing, you’re in the food chain. You’re in the food– we are out of the food chain. I don’t know if we fully appreciate the fact That we got out of the food chain. That is a massive upgrade Because for every other living thing, Life ends by being eaten. That’s how all life ends, is– Every single life except human life, Every life ends like this. Aah! Aah! Aah! We’re the only ones that get to just die old in a bed, Just “I love you. Bye.” I mean, imagine if we were still in the food chain On top of everything else. Imagine if we were in the food chain. It would just be another thing you gotta deal with. You’re already having a bad day. You wake in up in the morning. You’re making breakfast. You burn your toast, and it’s too late to try again, And your kid comes in and says, “beh,” and you’re like, “fine,” And it’s just, “why?” You get a thing in the mail That says that your phone’s different, And your mortgage is another company now. What? I don’t get it! Then you’re walking to work like, “why do I even bother? “shit! Goddamn it! “there’s always fucking cheetahs at the train station! Stop it!” You think that sharks– Do you think that sharks would be embarrassed If they knew that we could all see their fins Sticking out the top of the water? I think they’d be bummed ’cause I don’t think sharks are aware of that at all. I think sharks think they’re slick. They swim around like, “hey, nobody has any idea what’s down here,” And we’re all up here like, “there’s totally a shark right there.” It wouldn’t be fun being a predator, either. If you’re a predator, imagine if every time you’re hungry, You gotta chase a guy Who’s running for his life. You gotta– “come on, dude! Shit, get over here!” And just hold him down and bite his neck Till he shuts the fuck up for a minute So you can just sit there and eat his stomach Before you go to work. That would really suck. That’s why animals just– They go, “let’s do this together, man. “you chase the parents away. I am gonna eat the kid, and you circle back.” That’s why they do it like that. “fuck it. I’m eating babies. This is bullshit.” “grownups ain’t worth the meat.” Whoops, all right. All right. shit. Goddamn it. Idiot. This isn’t a gay voice, by the way. It’s not. Shut up. yeah. “Courtyard Confrontation”nI live in New York city, and it’s OK there. I live in a nice building. I never lived in a nice place before. When I was growing up, I had no money. I mean, my mom didn’t. Didn’t matter. I was a child. But I’m not used to it ’cause it’s nice. There’s, like, a pretty courtyard With flowers and a fountain with little marble boys pissing. I don’t know. What is it with fountains? Like, all fountain sculptors are pedophiles, basically. You can’t get a fountain made without– “can you make me a fountain?” “yes, I’ll get started right away! “Yes! Yes! It’s finished!” And it’s just little boys pissing on the face Of a Greek god that looks like him a lot. “just piss on me forever!” Anyway, there’s one of those in the courtyard of my building, And my first week in the building about a year ago, I went down to the courtyard for the first time, And I didn’t look too good, you know? It was a Sunday morning. That’s my least presentable hour. There’s a lot of, you know, just stains, Just like, you know, food and me and whatever… And so I’m sitting there. So? Shut up. Ha ha ha! Anyway, but so there I was. I’m sitting on the stone bench of this courtyard And feeling a little out of place. You know, there’s these fancy doormen and stuff, And then there’s this guy looking at me. I notice he’s looking at me from across the courtyard, And he’s all spiffy-looking. He’s got brown shoes, and he’s looking at me like, “” I can tell he was thinking I don’t live in the building. He thinks I just wandered in off the streets And sat in the courtyard. I can tell he’s thinking of coming over And dealing with me on his own, and I’m sitting there thinking, Like, “please do that. Yes. Please, come on, come on. Come on, come on, come on,” And I’m trying to look even more gross, And I’m, like, pulling up my shirt, “” And then I see him go, “no. That’s not gonna do at all,” And he comes over to me, “” and I’m like, “Num num num!” I’m so excited to have this thing, a confrontation Where I’m not wrong at all and he thinks I am. “rrgh!” So he comes over, says, “excuse me, “do you live in this building?” And I said, “no,” ’cause why not start there? I said, “no.” He goes, “well then, what are you doing here?” And I said, “I just need to rest. I’m having a hard time.” He says, “this is private property,” And I said, “well, I don’t really believe in that.” You know, just the worst things I could say from his point of view is basically all the things I was saying, And he goes, “well, if you don’t leave, I’m gonna talk to the doorman.” I was like, “can I just stay, like, five more hours?” So he’s–“no,” and he goes over to the doorman and I see him talking about me to the doorman like this, and then I see the doorman going, “no. That guy lives here. It’s OK,” And the look on his face– mwah mwah! Num num!– It was just so– It was this beautiful cocktail of anger and confusion. It’s like I had invented a new way to hurt somebody’s feelings. That’s how excited I was. “Getting What ‘Old’ Is”nI’m 45 now, So I’m either halfway through a healthy life or almost done with a not-so-healthy life. I don’t know which one. I won’t know till it’s over where this was. I don’t know how long I’m gonna live. I don’t know. Nobody knows, I guess. I think human life expectancy is pretty good. We get a good run, you know? Some people die early, you know? If I die now, people will be like, “that’s too bad.” If I die five years from now, they’ll be like, “well, all right,” like it’s not even– It’s– Like, as soon as you’re 50, you’re a candidate. You know, there’s no candlelight vigils for 50-year-old guys that die, and you start pushing– You know, some people get to be like, 80s, 90s. You know, there are people that get to, like, 114, and then they’re in the news, and it’s always some old guy, “I met Napoleon.” No, you didn’t, you liar, You oldest liar in the world. But 45, you know, you’re not old yet, But you start having moments Where you kind of start getting what old is, Especially if you didn’t take care of yourself, you know? I have moments where I’m like, “wow, this seems early for this.” Like, this is something that happens to me a lot. I’ll be sitting watching TV or doing nothing, And all of a sudden, I’ll realize, “I need to wipe my ass right now.” “I mean, nothing happened, But I really gotta wipe my ass right now. Right now.” Gotta make trips to the bathroom just to wipe my ass. How does this happen already? I’m 45. Already, my asshole’s just like, “Just– ” My asshole– My asshole’s like the waistband on old pajama bottoms, Just kinda… Loose and ineffectual. My asshole’s like a bag of leaves that nobody tied up. It’s just sitting on the lawn, full and open, Puking leaves onto the grass with every wisp of wind. Some kid kicks it over on his way home From a tough day at middle school. “rats.” That’s a pretty accurate description of my asshole. Here’s another thing about my age right now. If I’m– OK. Say I’m sitting down. If I’m sitting anywhere, which–ha ha ha!– I love sitting so much– I would take sitting and doing nothing To standing and fucking any day. This is way better than coming. This is way better. This is what– At my age, if I’m sitting down and somebody tells me I need to get up and go to another room, I need to be told all the information why first. You gotta explain all that shit to me. “what? Why do I– no. Why, though?” “Your car is being towed right now!” “Well, that’s what happens to me, then. That’s– I accept that.” ’cause getting up is a whole thing. It means first, I have to decide, “do I really want to be alive anymore?” Like, let’s start with that, And then I gotta, “” start kind of rocking to get momentum, “” like I’m trying to get an old Honda out of a snow bank. “shit.” “Putting On Socks”nThe worst part of my day, worst part of every day of my life, is when I have to put on my socks. Putting on my socks is the worst part of every day, and it always will be. Even if I have a terrible day in the future Where my grandmother is murdered by my other grandmother, If that ever happened to me, the worst part of that day Will be when I put on my socks because– Putting on my socks, that means I have to– Here’s what I have to do. I have to get my hands past my pointed toe. I don’t even know how I do it. I’m sitting here. I don’t know how I do that. It’s ’cause you have to– It’s like folding a bowling ball in half. Soon as I start, I can feel– I’m pushing all the fat up into my vital organs, And I just feel all the systems failing. “beep, beep, beep!” And I have to, like, lay on my back like an eight-year-old And go like this, and I start passing out. And I know other people’s lives are hard. Ha ha ha! I know. I saw an interview on TV with Michael J. Fox, And he has Parkinson’s, and he was describing brushing his teeth, and he said It takes him two hours a day, and he said it’s agony, And I saw this and I thought, “OK. That’s hard.” That is hard, And so is putting on my socks. Sorry, Michael. Doesn’t make it easier to know about your thing. Tell you what. I’ll help you brush your teeth, you help me with the socks. “If You’re Older You’re Smarter”nI don’t know. I like getting older, though. Life is an education, and if you’re older, you’re smarter. I just believe that. If you’re in an argument with somebody And they’re older than you, you should listen to them. It doesn’t mean they’re right. It means that even if they’re wrong, Their wrongness is rooted in more information than you have. They’ve been there longer. If you’re older, you’re smarter. How many people here, by applause, are 45 or older? 45 or older, applaud. OK. That’s about 60 people out of 2,400. Here’s the interesting thing. There’s way more. I can see you. There’s so many more. This is Arizona. There are way more people in that demographic, But they didn’t clap. Why? ’cause they’re smart. They’re sitting in the dark going, “I don’t have to clap. I don’t have to do anything.” They’re not doing it, and they’re right. You know why? ’cause never identify yourself. Never. Are you crazy? You don’t know why I’m asking. How do you know what– OK. Burn them all. Burn everybody over 45. How do you know I’m not gonna do that? How many people here, by applause, are 40 or younger? 40 or younger, applaud. That’s every time. “Whoo! Whoo!” every time. That is a weird thing to celebrate in a room where you’re not the only people here. That’s like going to a cancer ward– “not me! Whoo! I don’t have it! I don’t have it!” If you’re older, you’re smarter. A 55-year-old garbage man is a million times smarter than a 28-year-old with three ph.D.S, Especially smarter than him, ’cause this idiot Has been thinking about three things for, like, 15 years. He’s worthless. The garbage man is 55. He’s had some experience. Things have happened to him. He went to cape cod one summer. He saw a dead guy floating in the motel pool. He took a bus to Montreal. He got a hand job at a fair… From a miner. I mean a miner. Not a minor, a miner. You understand? A miner. A grown man who works in a mine With dirty hands jacked him off at a county fair. That’s what I’m saying happened to the 55-year-old. You see? He’s had some experience. He knows more. More has happened to him. He’s seen more. He’s seen history. He’s witnessed history, Even if it’s not ancient history. He saw Nixon resign on live television. Me and those few people that clapped, We saw the president of America cry And then quit being the president. That shit was crazy ’cause none of us knew what was gonna happen next. Today people are like, “the president’s kind of disappointing.” Really? Our president wept like an insane person And then got on a helicopter and flew away… And the whole nation just watched him go. “Getting Older Makes My Life Better”nI like getting older, though, because for me, The kind of guy I am, getting older Makes my life better, you know, Like, my sex life, way better at 45, Look, ’cause this situation is OK at 45. This is not a fun kind of a 17-year-old to be. And some people, their life is better when they’re younger. You know, young dudes, young, skinny dudes, Best life in the world is being a young, skinny dude. They don’t have to do anything. They just show up With a big adam’s apple and a smelly t-shirt. “hey, I’m here for the easy pussy for the rest of my life.” “so where do I– everywhere? OK. Cool.” But for guys like me, this is not a fun youth. It gets better. I’d like to make one of those “it gets better” ads For just dumpy, young guys. We could use a little help, a little encouragement, Just somebody on TV, “listen, man. “I know it’s tough right now. “You’re vaguely heavy with no face. “You have zero value on the sexual marketplace. “You feel invisible to the girls in school because you are, “but it gets better because you’ll all grow up, “and you pretty much look just like this your whole life, “and they don’t. “Their options start running out really fast, “and you’re gonna be there. “As long as you stay relatively employed and washed, “you’re gonna be amazing in your 40s. “You’re gonna be– “you’re gonna be the branch that she can grab “before she hits the ground. “It’s gonna be so great. “It just takes time for her circumstances “to match your looks, but it’s gonna happen. “It’s gonna happen. “When real shit matters, you’re gonna be the sexiest motherfucker in the world.” It’s just time. That’s all it takes. There’s a formula to this. It’s pussy plus time over income squared. “Everybody Has Their Time”nEverybody has their time. Everybody has their time. I mean, not everybody. There are people out there who there’s just nobody for them. Yep. People like to say things like, “there’s someone for everyone.” Nope! Not at all true, and stop saying it ’cause it’s mean to people who never find anybody. There are millions of people out there who we’ve all unanimously decided, they are light speed ugly and nobody kisses them on the lips, even. Nobody touches their genitals their entire life. They just wash it, and then they die. That’s all that happens, “aww,” and if you’re feeling bad for them, you can go find one and fuck one tomorrow, you can just solve the problem right there with all that kindness in your heart. “Aww.” Well, go fuck one. “Nah.” I didn’t think so. That’s the one way we’re all mean. Nobody does that. Nobody fucks down, nobody. People fuck up or across. Some women fuck down because a guy talked them into that it was up. Some guy, “yeah. No. You should. I’m totally up. Yeah.” “Dating Takes Courage”nIt’s a weird selection process that we have. Dating really is– It’s how we evolve, is dating. It’s how we choose each other, And dating is a real drag for a lot of people, But I always think it’s a nice thing. You know, when I see a date, I’m always happy when I see a couple on a date ’cause it means people are still trying, you know? You see a couple on a date, It means there’s still courage out there. That takes courage, to go on a date, for both sides, Two very different kinds of courage. The male courage, traditionally speaking, is that he decided to ask. He went up to a random woman who he has no idea If she’s gonna like him or not and he walked up to her terrified. Everything in your body is telling you, “just go the fuck home and jerk off. Don’t do this!” But he walked up and said, “hi. Yes,” And she’s like, “” “no, no, no. A second. Give me a second,” And you try to get through this membrane of, you know– And then, if it works And you say, “you wanna go out sometime?” Sometimes she’ll say yes, and if she says yes, that’s her courage, and the courage it takes for a woman to say yes is beyond anything I can imagine. A woman saying yes to a date with a man is literally insane and ill-advised, and the whole species’ existence counts on them doing it, and I don’t know how they– How do women still go out with guys when you consider the fact that there is no greater threat to women than men? We’re the number-one threat to women. Globally and historically, we’re the number-one cause of injury and mayhem to women. We’re the worst thing that ever happens to them. That’s true. You know what our number-one threat is? Heart disease. That’s the whole thing. That’s it, just our own heart going, “dude, I can’t– “you can’t keep doing this. I told you three strokes ago that this is not smart,” But women still– “yeah. I’ll go out with you alone at night.” What are you, nuts? “I’ll get in your car with you with my little shoulders. Hi. Where are we going?” “To your death, statistically.” How do they still do it? If you’re a guy, try to imagine that you could only date a half-bear, half-lion, And you’re like, “I hope this one’s nice. I hope he doesn’t do what he’s going to do.” “First Date”nI always– I love when I see a date. You know, when you see a date, you can tell it’s the first date ’cause of the way they’re walking together And she’s looking up at his face trying to figure him out, And he’s just a mess. A guy on a first date just has no actual personality. He’s just a mishmash of different kinds of dudes for a couple of seconds each, just anything, no cohesive– Just like a ransom note cut out of a lot of magazines, just, you know, “well… “ha ha! “well, yes. I think so, too. Ha ha! Rrgh…” Whatever, just like a blind dick in space just thrusting in infinite directions Hoping to find pay dirt at someplace, And then sometimes you see a date that’s later down the line and something has happened. There’s something that happens in a date that I never get to witness ’cause women do this. They get to do it inside. They get to just decide quietly, “I’m gonna let him fuck me.” They just get to decide. Something he says, and she’s like, “that was good. He’s gonna fuck me later,” And he has no idea. He’s still, like, trying all this shit. He still has no idea he’s already in there. “Tits”nGuys are– We love women a lot– all men do– And we just look at you. That’s what I do. I just look at women. I just–“” Like they’re, you know, cakes in windows. I just–“” I was walking in New York once, and there’s these two very cute women walking behind me, and I was trying to walk slowly so I could hear what they were saying to each other, you know, ’cause they were cute, so I wanted to hear them, like that’s gonna help me in any way, to hear their– “don’t you wish the guy walking in front of us would squeeze our tits for, like, one second?” OK. Here. Here I go. Thank you. It’s really a flaw in men that we would all do that. If you’re a woman, you could ask any guy on planet earth, “could you squeeze my tit for one second?” And 100% of us will go, “yes, of course.” That doesn’t matter. I could be doing open heart surgery. “yeah. Ok.” Beep! “don’t worry. He’s not your tits. Don’t worry about it.” I don’t know why we love tits so much. Some people say it’s because we breastfeed, but so do women, Or, you know, baby women. Not grown-up women, don’t usually– You don’t see, like, a 68-year-old woman, Like, a stately look– You know, like Sigourney weaver, Like, sucking milk out of a young woman’s tit. “thank you, Deborah. I’ll see you tomorrow at 2:00.” It’s not usually the thing, Is the elderly breastfeeding from the young, Except for at the end of “the grapes of wrath,” Which I don’t mean to ruin that book for you, But you should have read it by now. I don’t know if you read “the grapes of wrath,” But that’s how it ends, with an old, dying man Sucking milk out of a young girl’s tits, And then the book is over, and you’re like, “Jesus! What happened at the end there? That’s crazy.” There’s no other book in that genre. There’s no dense, historic classic That ends with a weird, porny paragraph at the very– “and then Anna Karenina shat on his chest.” “holy moly with that!” “the end.” “my god! “that is a violent shift in tone at the end of that book. I’ve been reading this book for three months.” But we do, we love tits, And you always know a tit. You always know a tit. You know, like you ever been in a crowded place– Like a subway or like, you know, a sports stadium– And you’re smooshed in with other people And your elbow touches a tit behind you, you’re like, “that’s a tit. I just touched it. I know that was a tit. I know it!” Because the sensitivity of the male elbow To tit flesh specifically is unbelievable, just to tits, ’cause you could drive a tack in there, I’m not gonna feel it, But a tit– Through a shirt and a sweater and a jacket And her jacket, sweater, shirt and bra, somehow… “it’s a tit! I touched a tit! “I touched a tit! I touched one tit. One tit.” That’s rare, to touch one tit. It’s like a four-leaf clover. Usually, you touch two. The only time you touch one tit is when it was an accident Or you didn’t have permission, But otherwise… When tit access is granted, It’s usually good for two tits at a time. It’s, once you’re on one– You really have to screw up really badly and quickly To lose tit access between tits one and two. You must have said something really dumb on the first tit That you didn’t get the second one. “yeah, it’s like your mom’s dirty whore tit.” “why? What? I said I liked it. “that’s what I meant, is that I like it. “I like your mom’s dirty whore tit, And I like yours,” And if it’s up to the guy, we’re gonna touch both tits. No guy touches a tit and then goes, “you know what? “I’m good with the one. That’s fine for me. Everything in moderation.” We’re gonna touch both, Even if something terrible happens in the middle of– “yeah–” “there’s a bomb!” “shit! Come on, let’s get– “come on! Let’s get your tits out of here!” “Divorce”nI’ve seen a few tits. I’ve seen–I don’t know– 48 maybe. I don’t know. I had my history in my life, you know? I’ve been divorced for five years, And it’s been the best part of my life, being divorced, Easily my favorite part of my life. I love being divorced. Every year has been better than the last. That is the only time I can say that about, and by the way, I’m not saying don’t get married. If you meet somebody, fall in love and get married, And then get divorced because that’s the best part. It’s the best part. Marriage is just like a larva stage for true happiness, Which is divorce, Because you just let go and everything’s fine now. Divorce is forever. It really actually is. Marriage is for how long you can hack it, But divorce just gets stronger like a piece of oak. Nobody ever says, ” my divorce is falling apart. It’s over. I can’t take it.” And again, if you’re in a good marriage, stay in it. If you’re in the best marriage ever, stay in it. I’m just saying, if you got out, it would be better. That’s just a fact. I’m sorry. I’m sorry, but it’s true. Everything’s better. My ex-wife and I, This is the best part of our knowing each other. We’re good co-parents because we live apart and we’re friends. Our kids go to her half the week, They come to me half the week, and I’m a good father. I’m an attentive, focused, and responsible father. Do you know why? ‘Cause I get to say good-bye to these kids every week. Are you shitting me? It’s like every parent’s fantasy. Who can’t be a good father for half of every week? No matter how bad it gets, every Wednesday, I get to go, “good-bye, girls. “Daddy’s gonna go upstairs and pour whiskey all over his naked body right now.” “I’m gonna lay in my own filth until two seconds before you come back here.” That’s why I’m such a good dad. “Videoing Your Kids”nMy daughter was having a dance thing at her school. They had this big dance. Anyway, we all went, all the parents, And everybody’s there, and everybody’s got their phone, Every single parent. It was an amazing thing to watch ’cause kids are dancing And every parent is standing there like this. Every single person was blocking their vision Of their actual child with their phone, and the kids– I went over by the stage and the kids– There’s people holding iPads in front of their faces. It looked like we’re all in the witness protection program. Like, the kids can’t see their parents, And everybody’s watching a shitty movie Of something that’s happening ten feet– Like, look at your fucking kid. The resolution on the kid is unbelievable if you just look. It’s totally HD. Why are you taping this? You’re never gonna watch it. In a million years, you’re not gonna watch videos Of your kids doing shit you missed The first time it happened. You don’t watch it. You just put it on Facebook. “here, you watch it. I wanna take a nap now.” And then you get to read all the comments. “my god! “it’s so cute! Ngaah!” And guess what? They’re not watching it, either. They’re not watching the video. These kids are dancing for no one. Nobody watches the videos on your Facebook. They see the first frame of a kid and they go, “that’s very nice. OK. Back to this.” Nobody’s watching your kids’ videos on Facebook, I promise you. I’ll prove it to you. Next time you tape your kid’s dance, Tape one second of it and then add 20 minutes of just your own asshole. Just go in the bathroom and just record your own anus opening and closing for 20 minutes. Tack it onto your kid dancing for a second. Put that on Facebook. Everybody will write the same thing. “That’s adorable! I think I see a future star!” “Life Is A Good Deal”nDon’t tape shit on your– Life is short. Life is very short. I like life. I like it. I feel like even if it ends up being short, I got lucky to have it ’cause life is an amazing gift When you think about what you get with a basic life, Not even a particularly lucky life or a healthy life. If you have a life, that’s an ama– Here’s your boilerplate deal with life. This is basic cable, what you get when you get life. You get to be on earth. First of all–my god– what a location. This is earth, and for trillions of miles in every direction, It fucking sucks so bad. It’s so shitty that your eyes bolt out of your head ’cause it sucks so bad. You get to be on earth and look at shit, As long as you’re not blind or whatever it is. You get to be here. You get to eat food. You get to put bacon in your mouth. I mean, when you have bacon in your mouth, It doesn’t matter who’s president or anything, You just–“” Every time I’m eating bacon, I think, “I could die right now,” and I mean it! That’s how good life is. You get to– you get to fuck. That’s free if you’re smart. That comes with. That’s part of the deal. Where else are you gonna get that deal? You get to put your dick in there and go in and out, Pretty good, And if you’re a woman, you get to just lay back And just have a dick just shoving in and out of you awkwardly Anytime you want, anytime you want. If you’re a gay man, you get to just fill your boyfriend’s ass with your dick, just fill it all the way to the balls, And it’s nice and warm and tight in there, And he’s your buddy. If you’re a lesbian, You get to do all the stuff they’re doing, and… It’s a great deal. You get to eat. You get to fuck. You get to read “to kill a mockingbird.” It’s a great life. So, you know, I’m not worried about it ending. “Behind The Wheel”nIt’s pretty good, and I’ve wasted a lot of time Just being angry at people I don’t know. You know, it’s amazing how nasty we can get as people, Depending on the situation. Like, most people are OK as long as they’re OK, But if you put people in certain contexts, they just change. Like, when I’m in my car, I have a different set of values. I am the worst person I can be when I’m behind the wheel, which is when I’m at my most dangerous. When you’re driving, That’s when you need to be the most compassionate And responsible of any other time in your life ’cause you are fucking driving a weapon amongst weapons, and yet it’s the worst people get, and I am the worst. One time, I was driving, and there was a guy ahead of me, And he kind of–I don’t know– sorta drifted into my lane for a second, and this came out of my mouth. I said, “worthless piece of shit.” I mean, what an indictment. What kind of a way is that to feel about another human being? “Worthless piece of shit”? That’s somebody’s son. And things I’ve said to other people. I was once driving, and some guy in a pickup truck did– I don’t remember, even– And I yelled out my window, I said, “hey, fuck you!” Where outside of a car is that even nearly OK? If you were in an elevator And you were, like, right next to a person’s body And, whatever, like, he leaned into you a little bit, Would you ever turn right to their face and go, “hey, fuck you!”? “worthless piece of shit!” No. Literally zero people would ever do that, but put a couple of pieces of glass and some road between you, there’s nothing you would not say to them. “I hope you die!” I said that to a person. “I hope you die!” Why? ’cause you made me go like this for half a second of my life. You tested my reflexes, and it worked out fine! So now I hope your kids grow up motherless!” I mean, what am I capable of? I’d like to think that I’m a nice person, But I don’t know, man. “If Murder Was Legal”nA lot of it is context. There’s a lot of things I wonder if the world was different. Like, if murder was legal, I might have killed a few people. I don’t know. I’d love to think, “I would never do that,” But we really need the law against murder For one simple reason. The law against murder Is the number-one thing preventing murder. We’d like to think it’s ’cause, Like, “I would never do that.” No. It’s ’cause it really sucks getting caught murdering, a lot. If murder was legal, or just a misdemeanor– Like you get a thing in the mail– “shit, they had a camera there. Well.” If murder was legal, there would be so much murder. Regular people would murder. Murderers would murder even more, And then really nice, sweet people Would murder a few people, But nobody would murder no people. You wouldn’t trust somebody who didn’t murder If murder was legal. You wouldn’t like them. “I never killed anybody.” “OK. Nice meeting you. Yecch, what a creep. “I mean, not even a hooker? Live a life. “what’s wrong with that guy? He’s like a Mormon or some shit. I hate those guys.” “I think he’s nice.” “shut up, Janet.” They would just– If murder was legal, there would be a lot of murder. Children would behave very differently Because mostly parents would be murdering their own kids, That’s mostly what would happen if murder was legal. You know, you’d go to a mall, there’d be, Like eight, different moms in the mall just– “I told you to stop it! You didn’t listen to me!” Just–pbbt! There’d be just– You’d be stepping over dead kids. There’d be, like, a new problem. “you have to clean up your kids “when you kill them ’cause it’s gross. “it’s bad for the environment. “if you murder your child in a public place, “please use one of the red bags that are in the dispensers “every three feet of America. “put your murdered child in the red bag “with a logo of a murdered kid on it “next to the other logo that tells you “not to let your alive kid play with the plastic bag “because they might suffocate, In which case you could just leave them in the bag.” That is a whole bunch of horrible thoughts Right in a row, right in a row. That is a compressed area of bad thought. “Of Course, But Maybe”nYou know, you have your bad thoughts. Hopefully you do good things. Everybody has a competition in their brain of good thoughts and bad thoughts. Hopefully, the good thoughts win. For me, I always have both. I have, like, the thing I believe, the good thing– That’s the thing I believe– and then there’s this thing, and I don’t believe it, but it is there. It’s always this thing and then this thing. It’s become a category in my brain That I call, “of course… But maybe…” I’ll give you an example, OK? Like, of course children who have nut allergies need to be protected, of course. We have to segregate their food from nuts, Have their medication available at all times, and anybody who manufactures or serves food needs to be aware of deadly nut allergies, of course, but maybe… Maybe if touching a nut kills you, you’re supposed to die. Of course not. Of course not. Of course not. Jesus. I have a nephew who has that. I’d be devastated if something happened to him, but maybe… maybe if we all just do this for one year, we’re done with nut allergies forever. No. Of course not. Of course, if you’re fighting for your country and you get shot or hurt, it’s a terrible tragedy, of course, of course… But maybe… Maybe if you pick up a gun and go to another country and you get shot, it’s not that weird. Maybe if you get shot by the dude you were just shooting at, It’s a tiny bit your fault. Of course, of course slavery is the worst thing that ever happened. Listen, listen. You all clapped for dead kids with the nuts. For kids dying from nuts, you applauded, So you’re in this with me now. Do you understand? You don’t get to cherry-pick. Those kids did nothing to you. Of course, of course slavery is the worst thing that ever happened. Of course it is, every time it’s happened– Black people in America, Jews in Egypt. Every time a whole race of people has been enslaved, it’s a terrible, horrible thing, of course… But maybe… Maybe every incredible human achievement in history was done with slaves. Every single thing where you go, “how did they build those pyramids?” They just threw human death and suffering at them until they were finished. How did we traverse the nation with the railroad so quickly? We just threw Chinese people in caves and blew ’em up and didn’t give a shit what happened to them. There’s no end to what you can do when you don’t give a fuck about particular people. You can do anything. That’s where human greatness comes from, is that we’re shitty people, that we fuck others over. Even today, how do we have this amazing microtechnology? Because the factory where they’re making these, They jump off the fucking roof ’cause it’s a nightmare in there. You really have a choice. You can have candles and horses and be a little kinder to each other or let someone suffer immeasurably far away Just so you can leave a mean comment on YouTube while you’re taking a shit. Thanks a lot, folks. You guys were great. Thank you very, very much. Thank you.